{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
Transitmix is a web application that allows users to sketch hypothetical transit routes and schedules in any city. The application also includes information that helps calculate real-world attributes of the imagined transit route, such as operating costs, estimated number of riders, the population within 1/4mi of the transit route, and the percent of that population under the poverty line. The former two factors are calculated using customizable parameters. The later two factors are calculated using US census data that is pulled in on the back-end of the application.\
\
The application is map-based and built using Mapbox (an open source mapping library) and uses Open Street Map data as its baseman. The app also allows users to import shapefiles (.shp) of existing transit routes in their city to be edited if they do not want to built a system from scratch.\
\
The application user interface is well designed and easy to use. It allows users to customize many features, such as the census data shown and the cost parameters used, but it does not overwhelm the user with choices. Additionally, the navigation icons are clean and intuitive. Dragging the points to change and create routes is very easy to do, and the route information (cost, etc.) is updated in real-time when the route is changed. In addition to the initial singular layout of the app, a user can compare multiple routes at once. Finally, it is easy to share fantasy routes with the tool: it allows users to export .pdfs and shapefiles, and it allows users to grab a link that references an interactive version of the route.\
\
I saw a Gizmodo review of this application which complained that users were limited to creating bus routes (no under/over-ground subways or trains) because it was impossible to draw anywhere besides on streets exactly. Since that review, this feature has been changed in the application! I really cannot think of too many problems with this app except that some transit planners might perhaps care about other or additional demographic factors besides population density and poverty level. The app (at this point) does not let the user select other demographic data from the census.\
\
Presentation Link: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://slides.com/ellencurrin/transitmix-review/fullscreen"}}{\fldrslt http://slides.com/ellencurrin/transitmix-review/fullscreen}}\
}